# BLOCK BAZAAR
 
# Background:
Nowadays, we can buy and sell things online very quickly in a secured way. Thanks to the online e-commerce companies like Amazon, Flipkart, Quikr and so on. And we can also book services online, such as Uber’s cab services.
Buying and selling physical assets involving a huge amount of money, such as buying a car, flat, and so on, require a lot of middlemen and legal procedures. We can get to know about these online, such as we can see available properties in Magicbricks or 99acres, but we cannot buy them directly.
Thus if online payments gave us e-commerce, then the ability to create and perform agreements online gives us the ability to create digital equivalents to wages, complex property transactions, many financial instruments, and other complex chains of value, obligations, and rights.

# Objective:
We aim to build a secure decentralised e-marketplace which also ensures legal protection to the buyer and the seller.

# Purpose:
Our purpose is to overcome the demerits of centralised e-commerce by using a more secured and automated technology; i.e. the blockchain technology. As we know blockchain is immutable, and any malicious activity can be immediately identified by the unique hash addresses generated by Blockchain hashing. And also blockchain smart contracts enable automation, which reduces transaction costs and time. Also we will be integrating a legal body to this, thus ensuring legal protection.

# Scope:
Currently, e-commerce websites store a users’ buying behaviour and share this information with vendors and suppliers. If this storing and sharing of information is done on a blockchain platform, then the user will have the benefit of deciding how they wish to share this personal information with the e- commerce platform, or choose if they want to share that information for market research purposes.
E-commerce companies act as middlemen between buyers and sellers; they charge sellers a fee to list their products on their website, and buyers are mandated to pay a transaction fee. Our model benefits both the buyer as well as the seller, as the buyer and seller meet directly on the blockchain platform, therefore eliminating those fees charged by the e-commerce companies.

Transactions that occur on the blockchain platforms are much simpler and faster, and takes a fraction of the time that regular transactions do. Moreover, all these transactions and complete order and product history are stored in highly secure and encrypted blocks. These blocks cannot be changed, altered or manipulated in anyway. Additionally, they can never be deleted either. The blocks would form a complete history and tell the story of a product.
A network of nodes lists items is offered through the marketplace by individual businesses, eliminating single-point-of-failure scenarios and preventing a single controller firm from manipulating the shared central database.

# Applicability:
Through our decentralised application, people will be able to exchange physical property, intellectual property, and eventually even real estate, on the blockchain. People can also order for various services online. All in just one platform, without the intervention of any middlemen.
